# HTML Lists, JS Control Flow, and the CSS Box Model

## HTML Lists


### Unordered Lists

Syntax: `<ul></ul>`

Unordered lists are used in scenarios where one wants to group a list of items and the order that they're in doesn't matter.

To change the bullet style of an unordered list, use the css property `list-style-type`. There is an HTML attribut to do this as well, but it is out of date.

### Ordered List

syntax: `<ol></ol>`

Ordered lists are used in scenarios where one one wants to list things in a particular order. This can be used for things like directions.

The numbers on an ordered list can be changed with various attributes utilized for different purposes.

`reversed` lists the numbers in reverse order.

`start` specifies the starting number of the list, which should be used when the list doesn't start at one.

`type` specifies the style of the numbers. For example, roman numerals, letters instead of numbers, uppercase or lowercase, etc.

## CSS Box Model

AS per the reading instructions for this page, I will explain `margin` and `padding` in the CSS box model as characters in a story.

In a story called 'The Box Model', `margin` and `padding` serve similar roles. `margin` is the oldest sibling, wrapping everyone else in the box in their protective grip. They face the outside and stand between their box and other boxes. `padding` is the second oldest, and wraps around all the smaller elements in the box. They face the inside and provide an extra comfy layer of softness and protection to those inside.

Anyways, the four parts of an HTML element box are:

+ margin

+ border

+ padding

+ content

## JavaScript

### Arrays

Arrays are an object that stores a list of values of any data type. They can be contained in a variable.

This is a valid Javascript array:

`const people = [['pete', 32, 'librarian', null], ['Smith', 40, 'accountant', 'fishing:hiking:rock_climbing'], ['bill', null, 'artist', null]];`

Lists in an array have assigned numbers to them based off of the order in which they are written, starting with a value of 0. This can be used to access an item within an array.

In order to access an item in an array within an array, put brackets around the number you want to invoke.

For example, to access `pete` in the array above, one could write `people[0]`.

### Assignment Operators

Examples:

- `=`: The basic assignment operator. Does nothing but assign a value to something.

- `+=`: Addition assignment operator. Adds the left value to the right value and assigns the result to the left value. Can be written as `x = x + y`

- `*=`: Multiplication assignment operator. Multiplies the left value by the right value and assigns the result to the left value. Can be written as `x = x * y`

- `&=`: AND assignment operator. Applies the `AND` between the left and right values and assigns the returned boolean to the left value. Can be written as `x = x & y`

- `-=`: Subtraction assignment operator. Subtracts the left value by the right value and assigns the result to the left value. Can be written as `x = x - y`

### Example Problem

`let a = 10;
 let b = 'dog';
 let c = false;

 (a + c) + b;`

returns

`"10dogfalse"`

### Conditional Statements

A real world example of a conditional statement's use is in password management. If the password is correct, then the user gets in, otherwise the user should not be let in.

### Loops

Loops are useful in JavaScript for many reasons. One way they're useful is if you want a task repeated a specified number of times, for instance, if you want a conditional to be executed five times before stopping. 

## Things I want to know more about

- I want to delve further into array management.

- Boolean arithmatic