# Forms and JS Events

## HTML Forms

Forms are one of the biggest points of interaction between a user and a website/application. They're used for both data-input and UX purposes.

That being said, a form can also easily frustrate a user. Longer forms are quite hated, so its important to make sure that a form contains only the necessary prompts and componenets.

### Form Elements

+ `<form>` is the container element for a form. It contains multiple important attributes including `action`, the location of where the collected data should be sent, and `method`, the HTTP method of sending that data.

+ `<label>` gives a name to an input section of a form. It uses the attribute `for` in order to tie it to its sister input element.

+ `<input>` defines an area of data input. It uses the attributes `type`, which labels what type of input interface is being used, `name`, which labels it, and `value`, which fills the elenet with desired text.

+ `<textarea>` is used for when the desired data input is a block of text. It opens a text box.

+ `<button>` is exactly what it sounds like. It summons a button. It uses the attribut `tyoe` to define what the desired effect of clicking on it will do. `type` accepts three values, `submit`, which sends data to the defined location in the `action` attribute on the `<form>` tag, `reset`, which resets all form elements to their default state, and `button`, which does nothing on its own but can have a custom action defined in javascript.

### Accessibility

It is important to keep screen readers in mind when designing forms. The flow of a form can alter the words read aloud by a screen reader as well as their order. Listen to how a screen reader reads off a form before finalizing it in order to make the best interface.

## Javascript Events

Events are anything that happens in a programmed system.

### Event Handlers

An event handler is a means to react to an event. You can attach an event handler to almost any event that is fired.

### Event Listener Function

`.addEventListener()` is a function that can be added to a variable assigned to a method of input (example: a button). It requires two arguments, one is the event impetus as a string, such as a click or mouse hover, and the other is is a function that occurs when the event happens.

### Event Object

An event object is a parameter that helps add specificity to an event reaction.

The `.target` property can be added to an event object in order to delineate that the effect of the event occurs to a specific HTML element.