# State, Props, and Lifecycle

## React Lifecycle

There are 3 phases to the React Lifecycle. Each phase has a multitude of different events that take place in them.

- **Mounting:** The instance the component is created and inserted into the DOM. The lifecycle events that occur here are constructor, static getDerivedStateFromProps, render, componentDidMount, and UNSAFE_componentWillMount

- **Updating:** Any instance that the component or state changes. It happens in a specific order: static getDerivedStateFromProps, shouldComponentUpdate, render, getSnapShotBeforeUpdate, componentDidUpdate, UNSAFE_componentWillUpdate, UNSAFE_componentWillReceiveProps

- **Unmounting:** The instance a component is removed from the Dom. The only lifecycle event that occurs during this phase is componentWillUnmount.

**Example Order of Events:**

1. constructor
2. render
3. React Updates
4. componentDidMount
5. componentWillUnmount

## Props and State

**Props** are properties to a component that act like arguments to a function. They are passed into a component from outside of the component.

**State** exists solely within the component and changes based off of the components behavior. It often starts with a prop and then alters it accordingly.

The state allows for re-rendering based off of user input, while props are more static and not likely to change. The state can store instances of data that are likely to change based off of component behavior and user input. Meanwhile Props can store data passed down from a parent component.
