# Passing Functions as Props

## Map()

The map method takes an array and returns a separate array based off of the initial array and a functionthat modifies it.

In order to display an array in JSX, you can use the map function to turn each item in an array into a list element.

Each list item needs a unique key, which is an id which differentiates it from the other list items. The key is usually an item's index or an item's id parameter.

## Spread Syntax

`(...)` is the spread operator. It is placed before an iterable (ex: an array or string), and it expands their items into multiple individual elements.

The spread operator can be used to apply other operators to individual items or combine multiple objects. It can also be used to apply an operator to all the items in an object without listing repetitive code. And it can be used to add items to arrays.

## Passing Functions Between Components

Functions can be passed between components via a prop. It can be passed from a parent to a child or vice versa.

In order to pass a function from a parent to a child, you mustdefine the function in the parent, and then pass it through the child as a prop. When calling on the child component in the parent component, be sure to define the prop as the function defined.

In order to pass a function from a child to a parent, a separate function must be made in the parent that exists solely to invoke the function in the child component. This function will be passed through the child component as a prop, which will invoke the original function.