# Forms in React

## Controlled and Uncontrolled Forms

**Controlled components** and **uncontrolled components** refer to the different ways to manage a form in React.js. 

**Controlled forms** utilize the state of the form component to control the values of the form elements. Event listeners are tied to the form elements and changes to them kick off event handlers. The event handlers then trigger a change to the form state.

**Uncontrolled forms** utilize the DOM instead of React to control the values of form elements. The form component state does not change, and instead Refs are used to directly influence the DOM.

It is preferable to use controlled forms over uncontrolled forms.

### On Input

In controlled forms, the state should only be updated when the user submits their responses instead of when they enter them. This is a matter of convenience and privacy. The user may input incorrect data or change their mind on what they want to input.

In order to target what the user is entering if an event handler is on the input field, you must use the `useState` hook on the input value. By setting the input value congruent with the state, the change of state can then be used to initiate the event handler.

## The Conditional (Ternary) Operator

The ternary operator can be used to replace an if... else statement. It is written as `condition ? true : false`. The `?` takes the place of `if` and the `:` takes the place of `else`.

Example:

```if(x===y){
    console.log(true);
} else {
    console.log(false);
}```

is the same as

`(x===y) ? console.log(true) : console.log(false)`

A ternary operator is convenient and makes coding more concise, readable, and clean.

*ChatGPT was consulted for the article*
