# Node.js

## What is Node.js?

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime. Runtimes are platforms or frameworks that programs or applications run on, they provide server-side assistance, resources, and whatnot and deal with abstracting the underlying OS and hardware of a device. Node.js does this for the JavaScript language specifically.

### Chrome's V8 JavaScript Engine

Node.js runs on the open source v8 engine made by Chrome. the V8 engine interprets and executes the JavaScript code of an application.

### npm

npm stands for Node Package Manager. It is exactly what it says on the tin. It is the world's largest sofware registry and contains over a million packages of code available for download.

The command to install a package is `npm install`

For example:

`nom install -g jshint` would globally install `jshint` on my system.


### My Machine and Node

Currently, I am running Node v21.3.0 and npm 10.2.4 on my system.

## Pair Programming

Pair programming is the practice of two coders working together to generate one thing of code in a specific way. One person is the navigator and the other is the driver. The driver writes the code and the navigator tells the driver what to write.

There are 6 reasons to do pair programming:

- **Greater Efficiency**: While pair programming takes longer, it produces higher quality code that minimizes later necessity for debugging.

- **Engaged Collaboration**: Minimizes a need to ask for help and increases productivity.

- **Learning from Fellow Students**: Exposes students to more and diverse code.

- **Social Skills**: Imporves social skill and communication of complex issues.

- **Job Interview Readiness**: pair programming is a common step in the interview process.

- **Work Environment Readiness**: Simulates certain types of work environments.

In my experience, the most beneficial reason to do pair programming is social skills. It forced me to communicate complex issues to people of various skill levels.

*ChatGPT was consulted for this article*
