# Functional Programming and Modules

Functional programming is a programming paradigm that treats software functions like mathemeatical functions. It avoids changing state and using info that can alter the function itself. 

This makes code that is easier to read, predictable, and less likely to break.

## Pure Functions

Pure functions have roughly two factors that qualifies them as 'pure':

- Given the same argument, they will always return the same result.

- It doesn't cause side effects.

A pure function does not take in global variables or information that is subject to change outside of it.

A pure function is also referentially transparent, which means that the output is solely decided by the input.

The data pure functions take in is immutable, that is to say, the input is not modified or changed in any capacity. Instead the output is a new data structure.

**Pure functions are predictable and eliminate randomness**

### Benefits

Pure functions are easy to read and comprehend. They are predictable, able to be tested, and lend themselves to easy structural composition.

They make maintenence and refactoring simpler and follow the functional programming paradigm.

## Modules

A node.js module is essentially the same thing as a react.js component. It is a file of code containing information that can be accessed by other files of code on the same repository.

A module can access another module through the `require` command. `require` takes in a file path string and finds the module it's looking for and connects it to its home module.

In order for a module's code to be accesssible by other files, it must export the code it wants to share via the `modules.export` command.

*ChatGPT was consulted in making the article*
